Customize RBAC for the SDK (#1299)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/vendor/replicated-sdk-rbac.md

# Customizing RBAC for the SDK

This topic describes role-based access control (RBAC) for the Replicated SDK, including the default RBAC, minimum RBAC requirements, and how to install the SDK with custom RBAC.

## Default RBAC

> The SDK creates default Role, RoleBinding, and ServiceAccount objects during installation. The default Role allows the SDK to get, list, and watch all resources in the Helm release and to update the `replicated` Secret and ConfigMap:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK creates default Role, RoleBinding, and ServiceAccount objects during installation. The default Role allows the SDK to get, list, and watch all resources in the namespace and to update the `replicated` Secret and ConfigMap:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  labels:
    {{- include "replicated.labels" . | nindent 4 }}
  name: replicated-role
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - '*'
  resources:
  - '*'
  verbs:
  - 'get'
  - 'list'
  - 'watch'
- apiGroups:
  - ''
  resources:
  - 'configmaps'
  - 'secrets'
  verbs:
  - 'update'
  resourceNames:
  - replicated
```

> ## Minimum RBAC Requirements

Reviewer: One more important thing that I just realized. There are resources the SDK needs permission to `list` and `get` in order to calculate the state of a particular resource, which are `endpoints` and `pods`. Permission to `get` and `list` endpoints is required to figure out the status of a Kubernetes service. Permission to `get` and `list` pods is required to figure out the status of a Kubernetes `statefulset` or `daemonset`. This is applicable to both scenarios listed below.

Reviewer: While we're at it, the SDK requires permission to `list` and `get` services when calculating the state of an `ingress` resource, even if the status informers do not explicitly list a `service` resource. This is also applicable to both scenarios listed below.

Reviewer: In summary, the SDK requires the following permissions indirectly:

- For `ingress` resources, the SDK requires `get` permission for the `service` resource(s) listed in the `backend.Service.Name` of the `ingress` resource.
- For `daemonset` and `statefulset` resources, the SDK requires `list` permission for `pods` in the namespace.
- For `service` resources, the SDK requires `get` permission for `endpoint` resources with the same name as the service.

Author: Updated the list to include these additional reqs

The SDK requires the following minimum RBAC permissions:
* Get, list, and watch any resources included in the application Helm release that are used as status informers:
  * If you defined custom status informers, then the SDK must have permissions to get, list, and watch all the resources listed in the `replicated.statusInformers` array in your Helm chart `values.yaml` file.

>   * If you did _not_ define custom status informers, then the SDK must have permissions to get, list, and watch all resources in the application Helm release.

Reviewer: Note: I know I wrote "all resources in the application Helm release" in the related google doc, but technically, the SDK only supports status informers for:

- deployments
- daemonsets
- ingresses
- persistentvolumeclaims
- statefulsets
- services

With that being said, it's highly likely that we'll add support for more resource types in the future. The question is, would you rather document the specific resource types that the SDK supports today, or keep it as "all resources in the application Helm release"?

cc @AmberAlston

Author: Good question. I'm thinking since this says "minimum" requirements it's probably best to list them out, even if it creates some docs maintenance overhead.

  The Replicated vendor portal uses status informers to provide application status data. For more information, see [Helm Installations](/vendor/insights-app-status#helm-installations) in _Enabling and Understanding Application Status_.   

> * Get and update a Secret and a ConfigMap named `replicated`.

Author: ^ Could include a description here of what the Secret and ConfigMap are used for if you think it would be helpful. It looks like the Secret was used for a handful of things, but I didn't understand it well enough to come up with a succinct description

## Install the SDK with Custom RBAC

To use the SDK with custom RBAC permissions, provide the name for a custom ServiceAccount object during installation. When a service account is provided, the SDK uses the RBAC permissions granted to the service account and does not create the default Role, RoleBinding, or ServiceAccount objects.

To install the SDK with custom RBAC:

1. Create custom Role, RoleBinding, and ServiceAccount objects. The Role must meet the minimum requirements described in [Minimum RBAC Requirements](#minimum-rbac-requirements) above.
1. During installation, provide the name of the service account that you created by including `--set serviceAccountName=CUSTOM_SERVICEACCOUNT_NAME`.

   **Example**:

   ```

>    helm install wordpress oci://registry.replicated.com/my-app/beta/wordpress --set serviceAccountName=mycustomserviceaccount

Reviewer: if the replicated SDK is included as a subchart in the `wordpress` chart, then the command needs to specify `replicated.` before the field name like so:
```suggestion
   helm install wordpress oci://registry.replicated.com/my-app/beta/wordpress --set replicated.serviceAccountName=mycustomserviceaccount
```

If the user is installing the replicated SDK as a standalone (e.g. integration mode), then the `replicated.` prefix is not necessary. Not sure how detailed we need to be here.

  * For any Daemonset and Statefulset resources used as status informers, the SDK requires `list` permissions for pods in the namespace.
  * For any Service resources used as status informers, the SDK requires `get` permissions for Endpoint resources with the same name as the service.  

  The Replicated vendor portal uses status informers to provide application status data. For more information, see [Helm Installations](/vendor/insights-app-status#helm-installations) in _Enabling and Understanding Application Status_.
## Install the SDK with Custom RBAC

To use the SDK with custom RBAC permissions, provide the name for a custom ServiceAccount object during installation. When a service account is provided, the SDK uses the RBAC permissions granted to the service account and does not create the default Role, RoleBinding, or ServiceAccount objects.

To install the SDK with custom RBAC:

1. Create custom Role, RoleBinding, and ServiceAccount objects. The Role must meet the minimum requirements described in [Minimum RBAC Requirements](#minimum-rbac-requirements) above.

> 1. During installation, provide the name of the service account that you created by including `--set replicated.serviceAccountName=CUSTOM_SERVICEACCOUNT_NAME`.

Author: Updated this command too to include the `replicated.` prefix. I'm leaning towards leaving out the detail about how you don't need it for integration mode, just because I think people who are familiar with setting values would have a good idea of how to access the correct value. But LMK if you agree
